# CNN and SVM performances at solving a visual task, modeling the human Visual Cortex

During fixation, the human eye is performing a random movment (~50 Hz) around the stimulus it focuses on, known as **Occular Drifts**. This inter-saccade movement is casuing the stimulus to perform an unkown random trajectory on the retina, adding a hidden variable to the information proccessed by the Visual Cortex. As a result, it is unclear how the Cortex is able to perform a calculation of the data it recieves and still produce a still and clear image, as all of us know when we are looking at a chair and not seeing any noise or blur. In order to better understand the possible performed calculations, we examine in this project a well-studided visual acuity task, namely the **Vernier task**. In this classification task,  an image of two slightly misaligned vertical bars is presented to the human subject. The subject (the machine learning model in pur case) is then required to discriminate whether the bars are relatively aligned to the left or to the right.

As extensive research was previously conducted on the subject (mainly by Prof. Yoram Burak's group from The Hebrew University of Jerusalem), there are a few computational models designated to solve this task. These models consist of analytical probabilistic calculations that take as input multiple spike-trains from a modeled retina (that includes the Occular Drifts), and outputing a discrimination as a result. In contrary, the goal of this project is to examine the performance of two machine learning models in solving the problem - a **Convolutional Neural Network and a Support Vector Machine** classifier. The project then, consists of two parts:

1) Creating a **computional model of the retina**, including the Occular Drifts, that produces neuronal spike-trains as output
2) Creating the **supervised learning models** that take the spike-trains as input and classify them- right or left alignment
